governor abbott increases reward for criminal stash house reporting

august 31, 2022 | austin, texas 
      |
        
          press release
 governor greg abbott today announced that his public safety office (pso), in conjunction with the texas department of public safety (dps), has increased the reward amount of up to $5,000 for information leading to the identification of stash houses used in transnational criminal activity. the texas stash house program encourages texans to help combat transnational crime by anonymously reporting information on stash houses used to facilitate human trafficking, drug smuggling, and smuggling of people. "as president biden's dangerous open border policies continue to allow cartels and other criminal organizations to operate freely in our communities, it is more important than ever that texans step up and report suspicious activity," said governor abbott. "dps and local law enforcement partners are working around the clock to prevent transnational crimes from being committed in communities around the state. these stash houses contain people or drugs that may have otherwise made their way across texas and the nation because of the dangerous gaps left by the biden administration's refusal to secure the border. with the help of texans across the state, we can bring criminals to justice, destroy their illegal enterprises, and keep our communities safe." since governor abbott launched operation lone star in march 2021, dps troopers have uncovered more than 170 stash houses, which has led to the discovery of over 1,900 illegal immigrants. this week, dps successfully conducted a stash house operation based on the first tip approved for the newly increased reward amount that led to the seizure of more than 19 kg. of methamphetamine, 20 lbs. of marijuana, cocaine, heroine, lsd, among other illegal drugs, more than $6,000, gold coins and bars, silver coins and bars, and four weapons.  to be eligible for the cash rewards, anyone with information on stash houses can provide anonymous tips in one of the following ways: all tips are anonymous regardless of how they are submitted. governor abbott has taken significant action to secure the border in the wake of the federal government’s inaction. those actions include: read more on additional actions taken by the governor to secure the border. p.o. box 12428
austin texas 78711
(512) 463-2000