dps, tmd, & tdcj discuss ols arrest and detention process

austin – the texas department of public safety (dps) and the texas military department (tmd) hosted a media briefing thursday featuring the texas department of criminal justice (tdcj) to provide an update on operation lone star (ols). the briefing was held at dps’ regional headquarters in weslaco. dps regional director victor escalon, tmd maj. mike perry and the segovia unit senior warden felipe gonzalez discussed the progress of ols, focusing on the process of apprehensions, arrests and detentions. “the state of texas is sending a message to anyone who is thinking of crossing into our country illegally: if you are caught on private property, you will be arrested for criminal trespassing and put in jail,” said dps director steven mccraw. “we must continue working to secure our border in order to protect the people of texas from public safety threats that are a direct result of the federal government’s failure to properly address this issue.” dps is carrying out the mission of ols by focusing on the border counties of val verde and kinney, both high traffic regions for people attempting to illegally cross from mexico into texas. dps is working with permission from private landowners to make arrests of people who are illegally trespassing on their properties. dps and tmd then coordinate operations, including using drones and other aircraft, to make arrests in those areas. upon arrest, the individuals are transported to a processing center in del rio, where they are photographed, fingerprinted and appear before a magistrate before being taken by bus to either the dolph briscoe unit in dilley or the segovia unit in edinburg. “the texas national guard works alongside the texas department of safety to interdict and apprehend criminal activity on privately owned property along the texas-mexico border,” said brig. gen. monie ulis, texas military department border commander. “the guard is ready to surge personnel, equipment and capabilities to any region along the texas-mexico border to safeguard texans’ property and the country.” other recent ols activities of note include: @txdps @txdps   txdeptpublicsafety texas dps mobile app phone: (512) 424-2080 email: media@dps.texas.gov general inquiries: visit the contact us page for divisions contact. open record requests: visit the public information request page.     © 2023 texas department of public safety. pdf files require adobe reader or compatible.