tmd, dps provide update on ols, discuss operation steel curtain at weekly media briefing

austin – the texas military department (tmd) and the texas department of public safety (dps) hosted a media briefing today to provide an update on operation lone star (ols). the briefing was held at dps’ regional headquarters in weslaco. dps south texas regional media lt. christopher olivarez and tmd maj. michael perry discussed progress made to advance the mission within the last week. tmd is focused on apprehending transnational criminal organizations and repelling any potential large caravans. it recently identified low water crossing locations in texas from del rio to brownsville. “the texas national guard, along with our department of public safety partners, conducted rehearsal drills last week to block low water crossing areas along the texas-mexico border,” said brig. gen. monie ulis, tmd border commander. “the guard is ready to surge personnel, equipment and capabilities to block illegal border crossing to safeguard texans’ private property.” these drills, which were a part of operation steel curtain, included moving equipment and personnel into and out of these areas in anticipation of potential caravans who may try to use these areas to cross. dps is also ready to prevent potential caravans and is protecting the property of the state. “dps has maintained a large presence along our southern border as part of ols at the direction of gov. greg abbott,” said dps director steven mccraw. “we continue to make numerous arrests and apprehend suspects to keep texas secure. we remain committed to keeping the people of texas and their property safe and enforcing the law.” within the last week dps arrested a 16-year-old male driving a stolen vehicle on oct. 30 in lasalle county. the vehicle pursuit began when the driver failed to stop for a traffic stop. the chase ended when the driver crashed into a motel. he was found by u.s. border patrol k-9, trying to hide inside motel rooms. troopers also located a stash house on nov. 1 in hidalgo county, when they responded to several drawbridge activations near a neighborhood and followed the evidence to a house. the owner allowed the home to be searched and found 15 migrants, who were referred to u.s. border patrol. two juvenile american citizens were also in the house. the resident said she was babysitting the pair. other recent ols activities of note include: @txdps @txdps   txdeptpublicsafety texas dps mobile app phone: (512) 424-2080 email: media@dps.texas.gov general inquiries: visit the contact us page for divisions contact. open record requests: visit the public information request page.     © 2023 texas department of public safety. pdf files require adobe reader or compatible.