texas military department releases name of deceased soldier

click here to download pdf click here to download photo  media advisory media representatives wishing to obtain more information should contact the texas military department’s state public affairs office at media@military.texas.gov or 512-782-5620.   for immediate public release:   austin, texas (october 6, 2022) – the texas military department announced the death of a texas national guard soldier supporting operation lone star.  texas army national guard spc. demetrio torres, 20, died from an apparent gunshot wound on october 4, 2022, in eagle pass, texas. texas rangers and the command are investigating. he was assigned as an infantryman to company delta, 3rd battalion, 144th infantry regiment.   “we are grieved by this loss. we honor the time and service spc. torres gave to the texas army national guard, his presence will be missed in our ranks,” said maj. gen. thomas suelzer, the texas adjutant general.     all service members of the texas military department, to include operation lone star, have access to mental health and wellness resources. the texas military department counseling program can be reached via the 24/7 counseling line at 512-782-5069. the military crisis line/suicide prevention can be reached at 988. 
    -30-   the mission of the texas military department (tmd) is to provide the governor and the president with ready and trained forces in support of the citizens of texas and state and federal civil/military authorities at home and abroad. the texas military department is commanded by the adjutant general of texas, the state's senior military official appointed by the governor, and is comprised of the office of state administration (formerly the office of the executive director), the texas army national guard (txarng), the texas air national guard (txang) and the texas state guard (txsg). for more information about the texas military department visit our website at https://tmd.texas.gov. connect with us: 