update 2 - texas national guard soldier missing

click here to download  press release media representatives wishing to obtain more information should contact the texas military department’s state public affairs office at ng.tx.txarng.mbx.pao@army.mil or 512-782-5620.   for immediate public release:     austin, texas (april 23, 2022) – the texas military department continues the search for the missing soldier assigned to operation lone star. texas department of public safety, texas parks and wildlife, and border patrol continue to support tmd with the texas rangers as the lead for the investigation that began yesterday when the service member went missing. the service member selflessly attempted to help two migrants who appeared to be drowning as they illegally crossed the river from mexico to the united states. initial reports from the texas rangers have determined that the two migrants were involved in illicit transnational narcotics trafficking. they remain in the custody of us customs and border patrol. the texas military department was able to notify the family of the missing soldier friday evening. additional information, including the name of the soldier, will be officially released at a later date. the search for the missing tmd soldier will continue until we have exhausted all available resources. the texas military department is thankful to all interagency partners for their continued support in this operation to locate our missing soldier. our thoughts and prayers remain with the family of the soldier.     -30-   the mission of the texas military department (tmd) is to provide the governor and the president with ready and trained forces in support of the citizens of texas and state and federal civil/military authorities at home and abroad. the texas military department is commanded by the adjutant general of texas, the state's senior military official appointed by the governor, and is comprised of the office of state administration (formerly the office of the executive director), the texas army national guard (txarng), the texas air national guard (txang) and the texas state guard (txsg). for more information about the texas military department visit our website at https://tmd.texas.gov. connect with us: 